A data science architecture can be thought of consisting of three layers.
The first of these is the data layer.
This includes the data and data architecture used to bring data to the point of analysis.
In many cases, this involves only the original sources of data throughout the company,
but also ETL or extract, transform,
and load pipelines that are
specifically set up to bring the data to the point of analysis.
That point of analysis typically accesses data via
a data lake or relational or non-relational database.
The point of analysis represents a second layer, the analysis layer.
The analysis layer represents
the machine-learning architecture to support analytics and machine learning tasks.
In many cases, the analysis layer is accessed via
a user layer that provides a development environment in R or Python.
The two programming languages most common to data science.
Depending on the end-user,
and whether the data science functionality will be
built into existing products or solutions,
the user layer may include a front-end environment tailored to specific use cases.
As we discussed in this lesson,
there are three broad alternatives for how to host
data and machine learning technology in a business.
In many of today's largest companies,
it is common for the data science architecture to be deployed,
hosted, and maintained entirely in-house.
Companies that do not have the key technical skills to build, deploy,
and maintain an in-house solution,
can leverage public cloud providers for hosting and deployment.
Managed services provided by
public cloud providers provide many of the data architecture,
security, and monitoring services
necessary for data and machine learning architecture management.
Providing an alternative well-suited for the organization that does not have
the internal expertise to maintain its own solutions in house.
Finally, for organizations with little development expertise,
data science is still possible through
commercial solutions such as Software as a Service,
or Machine Learning as a Service providers.
For these companies, an off-the-shelf solution is preferable to building and maintaining
the infrastructure to support data science either internally or via a public cloud.